# Lesson 10: Make Classes: advanced topics

**Udacity Full Stack Web Developer
Nanodegree program**

Part 01. Programming fundamentals and the web
[Programming foundations with
Python](https://www.udacity.com/course/programming-foundations-with-python--
ud036)

Brendon Smith

br3ndonland

## 01. Advanced Ideas in OOP

## 02. Class Variables

* Class variables can be
shared by all instances of the Class.
* The Google Style Guide recommends all
caps for class variable names, like `VALID_RATINGS`.
* PEP 8
[recommends](https://www.python.org/dev/peps/pep-0008/#class-names) CapWords for
class names.

*Instructor notes*:

Around 0:40 or so, Kunal said with regard to
the valid_ratings variable:

"...This is an array or a list..."

To avoid
confusion down the road: Arrays and lists are actually not the same thing in
Python. 99.9% of the time, you'll want to use lists. They're flexible, and good
for pretty much every purpose.

However, there is also an array.array class in
Python, which is essentially a thin wrapper on top of C arrays.

They're not
something you'll probably need to use, but read more here if interested:
http://www.wired.com/2011/08/python-notes-lists-vs-arrays/


## 03. Quiz: Using
Predefined Class Variables

We explored three of the built-in class variables:
`__doc__`, `__name__`, `__module__`.

```python
print(media.Movie.__doc__) #
documentation function
print(media.Movie.__name__) # prints the class function
name
print(media.Movie.__module__) # prints module name
```
```
This class
provides a way to store movie information.
Movie
media
```

```python
import webbrowser
webbrowser.__doc__
```

## 04. Inheritance

This is another major topic in object-oriented programming.
Think about it like a family. A child inherits characteristics and genomic
material from their parents. Similarly, child classes can inherit information
from parent classes

## 05. Class Parent

We create a parent class, and
reference it in a child instance. While watching, I was thinking that the parent
class should be in a separate file. Kunal addressed this, and he just combined
them for ease of demonstration.

```python
# Udacity full-stack web developer
nanodegree
# 01. Programming fundamentals and the web
# Lesson 10. Make Classes:
Advanced Topics


class Parent():
    def __init__(self, last_name, eye_color):
print("Parent Constructor called.")
        self.last_name
self.eye_color


# Normally the child instance would be in a separate file.
#
Included here for ease of demonstration.
billy_cyrus = Parent("Cyrus", "blue")
print(billy_cyrus.last_name)

```

When I first ran this, I was getting
`AttributeError: 'Parent' object has no attribute 'last_name'`. I hadn't
finished defining parameters in the Parent Class.

```python
# Udacity full-
stack web developer nanodegree
# 01. Programming fundamentals and the web
#
Lesson 10. Make Classes: Advanced Topics


class Parent():
    def
__init__(self, last_name, eye_color):
        print("Parent Constructor
called.")
        self.last_name = last_name
        self.eye_color = eye_color
# Normally the child instance would be in a separate file.
# Included here for
ease of demonstration.
billy_cyrus = Parent("Cyrus", "blue")
print(billy_cyrus.last_name)

```

## 06. Quiz: What's the Output?

The code seems highly redundant.

*What will
the output be?*

```
Parent Constructor called
Child Constructor called
Cyrus
5
```

*output*:

```
Parent Constructor called.
Cyrus
Child Constructor called.
Parent Constructor called.
Cyrus
5
```
When computing the `miley_cyrus`
function, the Child Constructor is first called. The Child calls the Parent. The
output is then generated.

## 07. Transitioning to Class `Movie`
## 08. Updating the Design for Class
`Movie`

We revisit the code from our Class `Movie`. What if we wanted to add a
similar Class for TV shows? Movies and TV shows share some characteristics, like
the presence of a title and duration. We could create a parent function, `class
Video():`, and group `class Movie(Video):` and `class TvShow(Video):` as child
classes. Inheritance allows us to write code in an intuitive, human-readable
way.

## 10. Reusing methods

Kunal went back to the *inheritance.py* file, and
defined a new instance method inside `class Parent()` called `show_info`.
```python
    def show_info(self):
        print("Last Name - " +
self.last_name)
        print("Eye Color - " + self.eye_color)

```

He then
referenced it with `billy_cyrus.show_info()`.

## 11. Method Overriding

The `show_info()` method is present inside the `class
Parent():`. It can be created again inside the `class Child():`, and it will
override the parent function.
